Skip to main content

Filter: All

English

Contact us
AWS Marketplace
Support

My account

re:Invent

Discover AWS

Products

Solutions

Pricing

Resources

Search

Filter: All

Sign in to console

Create account

Explore topics

re:Invent 2026

The session catalog is live. Explore what's waiting for you

Build & Deploy AI Agents

88% of agent pilots stall. Learn what the rest do differently

Independent Software Vendors

AI for software & tech: build, scale, and monetize

Data for agentic AI

The 7 essential data capabilities to scale agentic AI

Agent Toolkit

Give AI coding agents up-to-date docs and AWS resource access

Amazon Quick

Answers grounded in your actual business data

News & announcements

AWS blog

About AWS

AWS is the world's most comprehensive cloud, enabling organizations to accelerate innovation, reduce costs, and scale more efficiently

Why AWS
Getting Started
Security
Compliance
Trust Center
Sustainability
Global Infrastructure

Featured Products

Analytics

Application Integration

Artificial Intelligence

Business Applications

Compute

Customer Experience

Databases

Developer Tools

End User Computing

Game Tech

Management Tools

Media Services

Migration & Modernization

Multicloud & Hybrid

Networking & Content Delivery

Operations

Security & Identity

Storage

Supply Chain

Browse all products

Transformation Hubs

Migrate to modernize → Modernize to unlock data → unlock data to run AI

Migrate & Modernize
Clear technical debt, modernize infrastructure, and move to the cloud

Data & Analytics
Future proof your data foundation for agentic AI

Artificial Intelligence
Get production-ready AI that automates, builds, creates, decides, and engages at scale

Featured Products

Get started with one of these featured services or browse allBrowse all products

Amazon Quick
AI-powered assistant for work with research, business insights, automation, and no-code app building

Transform
Eliminate tech debt with agentic AI to modernize legacy systems and code

Aurora
Serverless relational database service for PostgreSQL, MySQL, and DSQL

Amazon Bedrock
The end-to-end platform for building generative AI applications and agents

Amazon Connect Customer
AI-native solution for delivering exceptional experiences across customer interactions

EC2
Secure and resizable compute capacity for virtually any workload

What’s new
Explore new capabilities and the latest technologies

Customer success stories
Learn how customers around the world accelerate their cloud

Featured

By industry

By organization type

Solutions Library

Solutions for any organization

From startups to enterprises, find AWS solutions scaled to your needs. Access tailored resources, pricing models, and support levels.

Analytics Solutions
Discover curated Solutions that address varied analytics use cases

AI Solutions
Discover curated Solutions that address varied artificial intelligence use cases

Migration & Modernization Solutions
Discover curated Solutions that address varied migration and modernization use cases

What's new
Explore new capabilities and the latest technologies

Customer success stories
Learn how customers around the world accelerate their cloud

Pricing overview & tools

AWS Pricing
Learn about pricing and plans in one place

AWS Pricing Calculator
Estimate the cost for your architecture solution

AWS Free Tier
Get free, hands-on experience with AWS products and services

AWS Offers
Explore different offer programs to gain hands-on experience

AWS Savings Plans
Flexible pricing model offering lower prices

Single-product pricing

Amazon S3

Amazon Bedrock

Amazon RDS

Amazon EC2

Amazon SageMaker

Browse all product pricing

Learn

Documentation
Get detailed technical guides and references for all AWS services and tools

Training & Certification
Build and validate your AWS cloud skills and technical expertise

Cloud term glossary
Learn more about key cloud computing concepts

Whitepapers
Expand your knowledge of the cloud with expert guides and diagrams

Cloud fundamentals
Step-by-step instructions for common AWS tasks

Tutorials
Get started with step-by-step instructions

Connect & Support

Builder Center
Learn, build, and connect with builders in the AWS community

Events and webinars
Connect, collaborate, and learn from AWS experts in the cloud computing community

Partner Network
Collaborate with AWS partners to grow your business

Marketplace
Find, test, buy, and deploy third-party software

Support
Access proactive guidance, issue resolution, and helpful tools

Professional services
Accelerate business transformation with expert guidance and packaged solutions

Amazon Bedrock

Overview
Getting Started
Capabilities

Agents

Pricing
Resources
More

Generative AI

Amazon Bedrock

Security and Privacy

Amazon Bedrock Security and Privacy
Amazon Bedrock helps you keep your data and applications secure and private

Secure your generative AI applications

With Amazon Bedrock, you have full control over the data you use to customize the foundation models for your generative AI applications. Your data is encrypted in transit and at rest. Additionally, you can create, manage, and control encryption keys using the AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS). Identity-based policies provide further control over your data, helping you manage what actions users and roles can perform, on which resources, and under what conditions.

Build with comprehensive data protection and privacy

Amazon Bedrock helps ensure that your data stays under your control. When you tune a foundation model, we base it on a private copy of that model. This means your data is not shared with model providers, and is not used to improve the base models. You can use AWS PrivateLink to establish private connectivity from your Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) to Amazon Bedrock, without having to expose your VPC to internet traffic. Finally, Bedrock is in scope for common compliance standards including ISO, SOC, CSA STAR Level 2, is HIPAA eligible, and customers can use Bedrock in compliance with the GDPR. Amazon Bedrock is a FedRAMP High authorized service in the AWS GovCloud (US-West) Region.

Implement governance, and auditability

Amazon Bedrock offers comprehensive monitoring and logging capabilities that can support your governance and audit requirements. You can use Amazon CloudWatch to track usage metrics and build customized dashboards with metrics that can be used for your audit purposes. You can also use AWS CloudTrail to monitor API activity and troubleshoot issues as you integrate other systems into your generative AI applications. You can also choose to store the metadata, requests, and responses in your Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket, as well as to Amazon CloudWatch Logs. Finally, to prevent potential misuse, Amazon Bedrock implements automated abuse detection mechanisms.

How to get started

Video

Get started with a step-by-step tutorial

Watch the video

Tutorial

Explore common generative AI use cases with Amazon Bedrock Workshop

Gain hands-on experience

Video

Securely build generative AI apps & control data with Amazon Bedrock

Watch the video

Did you find what you were looking for today?
Let us know so we can improve the quality of the content on our pages

Yes

No

Create an AWS account

Learn

What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases

Resources

Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners

Developers

Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS

Help

Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
AWS Accessibility
Legal
Event Code of Conduct
Event Terms & Conditions

English

Back to top

Amazon is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis of protected veteran status, disability or other legally protected status. Veterans, military spouses, and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.

x

facebook

linkedin

instagram

twitch

youtube

podcasts

email

Privacy
Site terms
Your Privacy Choices

California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon

Cookie Preferences

© 2026, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
