Home

Products

watsonx

IBM watsonx

Faster, smarter decision-making through AI-powered conversational insights with governed, trusted data for consistent, business-ready outcomes

Start free trial

Book live demo

Overview
Case studies
Resources

Start free trial

Overview

Case studies

Resources

Start free trial

Overview

Meet watsonx

IBM watsonx™ accelerates data-driven decisions by delivering AI-powered insights with trusted, governed data, enabling faster, smarter business outcomes that integrate seamlessly with existing tools and infrastructure.

IBM Named a Leader in the 2026 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for AI Governance Platforms

Unlock insights into IBM's watsonx.governance & learn why we were named a Leader

Join webinar

Generative AI

IBM® watsonx.ai™

Step into your AI studio
Develop custom AI applications faster and easier with an integrated, collaborative, end-to-end developer studio that features an AI developer toolkit and full AI lifecycle management.

Explore watsonx.ai

Data and analytics

IBM® watsonx.data™

Trust your data, trust your decisions
Manage, prepare and integrate trusted data from anywhere, in any format so you can unlock AI insights faster and improve the relevance and precision of your AI applications.

Explore watsonx.data

IBM® watsonx.data® integration

Deliver trustworthy data faster with agentic AI integration
Growing data volumes and fragmented tools create backlogs while business users wait days for data. IBM® watsonx.data® integration software uses AI agents to help teams design, optimize and execute workflows across hybrid environments—no more waiting.

Explore watsonx.data integration

IBM® watsonx.data® intelligence

Smarter data decisions with watsonx.data intelligence
Watsonx.data intelligence leverages metadata to discover, curate and govern data assets across on prem and public, private or hybrid cloud environments. That makes life easier for data engineers, architects, stewards and consumers.

Explore watsonx.data intelligence

IBM® watsonx® BI

Act on what matters now. Smarter, faster decisions are just a question away
Go beyond dashboards with IBM watsonx BI, a business insight agent that unlocks the full value of your data and transforms it into clear, actionable guidance to drive smarter, faster decisions. It works with the tools you already use and delivers intelligent, transparent answers tailored to your needs.

Explore watsonx BI

AI assistants and agents

IBM® watsonx Orchestrate™

Increase productivity by easily creating, deploying and managing AI assistants and agents to automate and simplify business and customer-facing processes.

IBM® Bob™

Accelerate across your SDLC with an AI partner that understands your codebase through deep context awareness and helps you accomplish end-to-end development tasks.

IBM watsonx Code Assistant Ansible Lightspeed

IBM watsonx Code Assistant accelerates IT automation with AI-powered playbook generation, code explanations, and personalized recommendations.

IBM® watsonx Code Assistant® for Z

Supports developers in every phase of lifecycle—from application discovery and analysis to automated refactoring, code explanation, generation, optimization and transformation to newer languages and testing.

Governance

IBM® watsonx.governance™

Mitigate the risks. Meet the regulations.
Automate governance to proactively manage AI risks, simplify regulatory compliance and create responsible, explainable AI workflows.
 

Stay ahead of risk

Case studies

watsonx in the real world

The US Open

For three weeks at the end of summer, more than one million people make the journey to Flushing, New York, to watch the best tennis players in the world compete in the US Open Tennis Championships.

7M

IBM captures and analyzes more than 7 million data points throughout the tournament

14M

World-class digital experiences for more than 14 million fans around the globe

Find out how

Vodafone

Vodafone is always looking for new opportunities to improve the customer experience. One great example of its digital innovation is TOBi, a virtual assistant that is available 24x7.

99%

improvement in turnaround time of journey testing

5min

to conduct gap analysis

Read the client story

D&B Ask Procurement

D&B Ask Procurement™ and IBM watsonx deliver comprehensive 360° risk supplier assessments with trusted data and AI

10-20%

Estimated reduction in time for procurement tasks

Dive deeper

IBM

IBM watsonx Code Assistant for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed technical preview generated over half of Playbook content

60%

Of IBM’s Ansible Playbook content was automatically generated by watsonx Code Assistant for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed in tech preview

See for yourself

Resources

Get started

Models

Foundation model library

Choose from a range of models hosted on watsonx

Models

Granite models

Open, performant and trusted AI models from IBM

For developers

Developer hub

Support your next project with some of our most commonly used capabilities

For developers

REST API

Using IBM watsonx.ai as a Service APIs, you can run text inference, prompt tuning and more on Large Language Models (LLM)

For developers

Sample watsonx applications

IBM's enterprise ready AI and data platform designed to leverage foundation models and machine learning

For developers

Sample watsonx code

Your launchpad to move faster, amplify impact, and deliver AI-driven solutions that set new standards - let’s take your business further

For developers

Technology partners

Enhance your technology investments with watsonx, seamless integrations and expanded capabilities

Spotlight

report

Top Strategic Technology Trends for 2026: Multiagent Systems

Read the Gartner report to learn how AI and business leaders can leverage MAS to improve performance, reduce risk and gain competitive advantage.

report

IDC study: Evolving Regulations and Emergence of Agentic AI Fuel AI Governance Imperative

Discover why AI governance is both imperative and a catalyst for sustainable business growth.

Take the next step

See watsonx in action to learn how you can integrate AI into your enterprise workflows to accelerate impact and drive productivity.

Start free trial

Book live demo

Explore more

AI academy

Blog

Client stories

Community

Documentation

*Accelerating software development with gen AI case study
